# 136301
 MyProject(Mobile Based Application)

 Globally, approximately 2.2 billion people suffer from blindness and vision deficiency. There are 1 billion people worldwide who have untreated refractive error, which causes moderate to severe distant vision impairment or blindness. The vision impaired people in our world experience lots of challenges that they did not sign up for. One of the major challenges for the visually impaired persons is, identification of currency which happens to be a centralized, widely used, acknowledged, and efficient means of exchange for goods and services. It can be challenging to allow someone with vision loss to recognize a banknote in daily life, especially for certain major daily used objects like a banknote. The goal of this project is to create an android mobile application that will help people who are visually impaired recognize and differentiate between various currencies. The application will make use of image processing and     machine learning techniques to precisely recognize the currency denomination and deliver real- time audio tactile feedback. The methodology to be used is iterative waterfall as the project will be handled in a sequential manner therefore, using the Object-Oriented Analysis and Design OOAD approach that allow changes to take place if needed and upgrading of the application overtime. Variety of tools will be used in the implementation phase which are Jupiter Notebook for generating object detection models, Android Studio for android production, Python Anaconda for streamlining high level programming language, CUDA toolkit for GPU accelerated library and TensorFlow framework to train the models using machine learning.

Key words: Currency detection, Android application, Image processing algorithm, Machine learning model.
